# 3005
Why does an average estimate of a nation’s happiness matter to the United Nations? It is because of the general belief that a happy nation is a productive and progressive nation free from the afflictions of crime and corruption. While for a perfectly happy nation this belief might prove to be an accurate one, its practical applicability is hindered by several intricacies and complications. This often means that the nations at the top of the world happiness report might not hold the exact positions in the other indicators of the socio-economic progression, and moreover, these nations might have been performing well at the happiness indices despite the highly reported crime and corruption indices. Looking at this phenomenon, I came to a belief that happiness seems to be only a small piece in a bigger puzzle which can be only solved if we can look at several factors holistically
I set out to collect a few pieces of this puzzle based on my intuition and decided to put them together along with the happiness index to see the picture these pieces combine into. I collected the data of ‘Corruption perception index’ for each country generated by TRANSPARENCY.ORG and a country-wise ‘Crime index’ stats calculated by Numbeo.com. While GPA per capita is an excellent measure of a nation’s productivity, I decided against using it because it is already incorporated into the happiness index calculations. Finally, I needed an indicator that represents a nation’s progress, but one thing we can all agree on about a nation’s progress is that it isn’t a simple thing that can be represented by a single measure. We can take, for example, infrastructure facilities available as an indicator or the amount of money spent on new projects as an indicator, but I instead opted to use the female literacy rate among the ages 15 to 24 for each country as I believe it is a concrete and an unmistakable indicator for a nation’s progress.
Initially, I started with around 150 countries in the world happiness report, but as I kept combining the other three indices, this number shrunk down to 63 due to the non-availability or the incorrect format of this data for many countries. I performed the ‘K-means clustering’ on the final combined dataset of these 63 countries to divide them into various clusters; analyzing how this cluster division took place and the indices grouped within each cluster
